+++
title = "Rust May Talks: Aetherus + TBA"
date = 2026-05-07
[extra]
kind = "presentation"
event_url = "https://www.meetup.com/rust-and-friends/events/314300802/"
+++

Tonight we’ll be hearing from:

* Cristian Bourceanu on "Aetherus: Monte-Carlo radiative transfer with photon history tracking of interactions for materials and surfaces". From Cristian:

"Monte-Carlo simulations are ubiquous in producing simulated results for problems that are challenging to solve numerically or analytically, but they can be described in terms of statistics. [Aetherus](https://github.com/aetherus-wg) is the first known multispectral time-resolved Monte-Carlo simulation, making extensive use of the Rust ecosystem: `serde`, `rayon`, `nalegbra` with SIMD speed-up. The big challenge is to analyse the results, for which we have added a novel events tracking method, using an encoding inspired from RISC-V 32-bit instruction encoding. This enables to group signals together based on various criteria and understand the effects underlying the detected photons histogram. A Domain Specific Language (DSL) was developed with `chumsky` to faciliate filtering based on an intuitive script."

"I am a PhD student at University of Edinburgh, investigating Multispectral LIDAR. Previously worked as a RISC-V CPU design engineer at Codasip and a firmware engineer at Hypervolt. Now trying to bring some of this knowledge together."

* [Fallible Things](https://blog.fallible.net/) on "Bevy in Anger (and other stages of grief)". From Fallible:

"I've been working on a digital card game for 2 years, having migrated her client-side code base to Bevy after prototyping with Godot for 6 months. Bevy is the Game Engine darling of the Rust community, and has been subject to both much love and hate over its half-decade of development. What's it like trusting and using this technology over time? What will it look like in the future? Has sticking with it been worth it?"

"[I'm](https://blog.fallible.net/) an Artist and Technical Writer involved in the local independent game development scene, and an infrequent Bevy docs contributor"

This time we'll be trying out hosting provided by the [Edinburgh Community Rooms](https://local.ed.ac.uk/community-rooms) project at Patersons Land (no slant against our previous company hosts, who are still much appreciated, it's just good to mix things up occasionally 😀).

Plan for the evening:

* 18:30: doors open
* 19:00 → 20:00: talks + q/a
* 20:00: move for drinks 🍻 to Holyrood 9A, where we have a table booked (this is nearby Patersons Land)